-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about limit range concept in Kubernetes
in relation with the name spaces.
So, we are going to deploy our applications
in the name spaces.
And at that point of time,
what is the use of this limit range concept
we are going to see practically?
So let's go back to our request and limit section,
whatever we have implemented earlier.
So in 0504, we have implemented request and limit section
wherein if you go to our user management
microservice container, right?
So in this deployment.
So we have added the resources section here, right?
And under resources you have said
that these are the requests and then limits
and then my container can request for this CPU
and then this much memory as a initial state
and then it can go up to this much limit.
And then not above this limit it can use.
So, my respective container
whatever is going to be as part of this deployment.
So this user management REST step container
can have the request says this much
and then limit says this much.
So every time, if you want to add these things,
you need to add these things in your means,
like if you want to define your limits
and then requests related to your resources
in your container means like
for your respect to application,
then you need to update there respect to deployment
of that application if it is MySQL,
or it is whatever, right?
So in requests and limits,
we didn't implement anything for this.
So this doesn't have any limits here.
This doesn't have any requests.
But user management microservice, you have it.
So every time you need to take this,
nip out and then update in your MySQL deployment here
and then change whatever is our tuned parameters,
whatever you want to use for MySQL,
you need to define.
But there are other options available as part of limiting
which is nothing but the automatically applied
to these things.
So let's see, what is that?
A default option is available here.
Let's see that, okay?
So you have a name space there
and then you have both the backend
and then front-end application.
So front end, let's consider as whatever it is, Nginx,
and then backend might be some other
REST services application, okay?
So whatever it may be.
So you'll have a limit range
and then with limit range you'll be able to control your CPU
and then memory.
So in two ways.
So one is default and the other is mean and then max.
So you can assign it default CPU
and then default memory
for the container present in this deployment.
And container present in this deployment
for all the containers present in this dev name space.
So which means whenever you apply that default option
of limit range, so you can have that default CPU
and memory associated for those respective containers
present in this name space.
So whenever you say default,
and then some CPU and some memory,
you associate all the containers present in this name space
are going to get that much things, okay?
So, you really don't need to go ahead
and then define this resources section
in your respective deployment.
So, we are going to see that now
by applying this practically.
Same way it is for QA and then staging environment.
So once you define your limit range here
with CPU and memory as default,
so then automatically those default to CPU and memory values
are going to get applied for the containers present
inside this namespace.
I'm repeating again and again
to get the super clarity on what we are doing.
So here it is, okay?
So limit range, manifest.
As usual, API version kind metadata are going to be same,
but you can see here we are going to associate this limit
range manifest means like we are going
to create this limit range manifest
in the name space dev3.
And under spec you'll have limits
and under limits you'll have default
and then default request.
So default is nothing but that default higher limit,
how much it need to have,
means like this respect to backend container,
front-end container need to have.
And then default request is nothing.
But in our concept we have
the how much it is going to request initially, okay?
So this this one, okay?
So this default refers to limits
and the second default request refers to requests, okay?
So now memory and then CPU.
My limit I have given for our each container
in this respect to name space,
in this respect to dev3 name space,
for each container,
maximum limit of each container is 512MB.
And then CPU is 500M, which is nothing but 0.5 off
one core CPU.
And default request,
which is nothing but how much initially it can request
is 256MB and CPU is around 300M.
And to whom all these things need to be associated
per container type is equal to container,
you can see it here.
So, that's about the limit and range
on a pictographic way are explaining it in a concept model.
So now we'll go ahead and then manually implement it,
write this manifest and then test it
and then understand it better.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.